app/Algorithm/README.md, before:

# Dijkstra's Algorithm

Implements a shortest route graphing algorithm conceived by Edsger Dijkstra. Given a graph with non-negative
weights and a source the algorithm will find a shortest path tree.

## Dijkstra in a nut shell...

1. Create a sptSet (shortest path tree) that keeps track of vertices included in the spt, i.e. whose minimum
distance from source is calculated and finalized. Initially this set is empty.

2. Assign a distance value to all vertices in the input graph. Initialize all distance values as infinity.
Assign a distance value of 0 to the source vertex so that it is picked first.

3. While sptSet doesn't include all vertices:
 * Pick a vertex u which is not in sptSet and has a minimum distance value
 * Include u in sptSet
 * Update distance value of all adjacent vertices of u.
   * To update distance values, iterate through all adjacent vertices. For every adjacent vertex v, if the 
   sum of distance value of u (from source) and weight of edge u-v, is less than the distance value of
   v then update the distance value of v.
       
       
## Heaps, Stacks, and Queues Oh my



## Graphs

For this problem space a graph can be thought of as a series of vertices plotted along with x,y axis with a
measure of distance for each edge between vertices.

![Graphs](http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/Fig-11.jpg "Source: http://www.geeksforgeeks.org")

There are 2 ways to represent this at a code level, adjacency matrix, or adjacency list. Each has advantages 
and disadvantages is processing speeds depending on the task. To my knowledge I don't know of a common/simple
way to use  adjacency matrices in PHP.

### Adjacency Matrix

An adjacency matrix is a means of representing which vertices (or nodes) of a graph are adjacent to which other vertices.

Example using the graph above

    > 0,  4, 0,  0,  0,  0, 0,  8, 0
      4,  0, 8,  0,  0,  0, 0, 11, 0 
      0,  8, 0,  7,  0,  4, 0,  0, 2                     
      0,  0, 7,  0,  9, 14, 0,  0, 0                     
      0,  0, 0,  9,  0, 10, 0,  0, 0
      0,  0, 4,  0, 10,  0, 2,  0, 0                     
      0,  0, 0, 14,  0,  2, 0,  1, 6
      8, 11, 0,  0,  0,  0, 1,  0, 7
      0,  0, 2,  0,  0,  0, 6,  7, 0

C/C++ has a data type for undirected and directed graphs. 

    /* Let us create the example graph discussed above */
       int graph[V][V] = {{0, 4, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0},
                          {4, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 11, 0},
                          {0, 8, 0, 7, 0, 4, 0, 0, 2},
                          {0, 0, 7, 0, 9, 14, 0, 0, 0},
                          {0, 0, 0, 9, 0, 10, 0, 0, 0},
                          {0, 0, 4, 0, 10, 0, 2, 0, 0},
                          {0, 0, 0, 14, 0, 2, 0, 1, 6},
                          {8, 11, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 7},
                          {0, 0, 2, 0, 0, 0, 6, 7, 0}
                         };

### Adjacency List

Adjacency lists are more space-efficient, particularly for sparse graphs in which most pairs of vertices are 
unconnected, while adjacency matrices facilitate quicker look-ups.

Moreover, we can easily work with adjacency list in PHP

Example:

    $graph = array(
      'A' => array('B' => 2, 'D' => 4),
      'B' => array('C' => 1, 'G' => 10, 'A' => 2),
      'C' => array('B' => 1),
      'D' => array('E' => 3, 'A' => 4, 'F' => 8),
      'E' => array('D' => 3),
      'F' => array('D' => 8, 'G' => 2),
      'G' => array('B' => 10, 'F' => 2),
    );

## Source, Inspiration, and Reference
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_theory
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm
* http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/greedy-algorithms-set-6-dijkstras-shortest-path-algorithm/
* http://www.sitepoint.com/data-structures-4/
* http://www.codediesel.com/algorithms/building-a-adjacency-matrix-of-a-graph/

## Future

In the future I'd love to be able to print the graphs and illustrate the process.

Resources
* https://github.com/clue/graph
* http://www.graphviz.org/

Commit message:

Finished adding my notes on the data structures that I used.

app/Algorithm/README.md, after:

# Dijkstra's Algorithm

Implements a shortest route graphing algorithm conceived by Edsger Dijkstra. Given a graph with non-negative
weights and a source the algorithm will find a shortest path tree.

## Dijkstra in a nut shell...

1. Create a sptSet (shortest path tree) that keeps track of vertices included in the spt, i.e. whose minimum
distance from source is calculated and finalized. Initially this set is empty.

2. Assign a distance value to all vertices in the input graph. Initialize all distance values as infinity.
Assign a distance value of 0 to the source vertex so that it is picked first.

3. While sptSet doesn't include all vertices:
 * Pick a vertex u which is not in sptSet and has a minimum distance value
 * Include u in sptSet
 * Update distance value of all adjacent vertices of u.
   * To update distance values, iterate through all adjacent vertices. For every adjacent vertex v, if the 
   sum of distance value of u (from source) and weight of edge u-v, is less than the distance value of
   v then update the distance value of v.
       
       
## Heaps, Stacks, and Queues Oh my

The nature of the data allowed for appropriate use of the priority queue and stack data types.

### Priority Queue

> A priority queue is a structure which accepts and holds items over time, but which can return the item of "highest
priority" whenever requested.

In PHP the SplPriorityQueue class provides the functionalities of a prioritized queue, implemented using a max heap.

> A max heap is a tree structure where each parent node has 2 children nodes, and each parent node is gte to the
children nodes.

Items added to a heap must be added to the most bottom left position available in the tree structure. When a 
value is added that violates the rule of parents gte children then the tree leaf is sorted to satisfy that condition.

In this case using a max heap increases the performance of Dijksta's algorithm.
See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm#Running_time

With arrays you have a list of elements and you can access any of them at any time. A stack, there's no random-access
operation; there are only Push, Peek and Pop, all of which deal exclusively with the element on the top of the stack.
(Think of the wooden blocks stacked up vertically now. You can't touch anything below the top of the tower or it'll fall over.)

For more information on PHPs data structures
See http://php.net/manual/en/spl.datastructures.php 

## Graphs

For this problem space a graph can be thought of as a series of vertices plotted along with x,y axis with a
measure of distance for each edge between vertices.

![Graphs](http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/Fig-11.jpg "Source: http://www.geeksforgeeks.org")

There are 2 ways to represent this at a code level, adjacency matrix, or adjacency list. Each has advantages 
and disadvantages is processing speeds depending on the task. To my knowledge I don't know of a common/simple
way to use  adjacency matrices in PHP.

### Adjacency Matrix

An adjacency matrix is a means of representing which vertices (or nodes) of a graph are adjacent to which other vertices.

Example using the graph above

    > 0,  4, 0,  0,  0,  0, 0,  8, 0
      4,  0, 8,  0,  0,  0, 0, 11, 0 
      0,  8, 0,  7,  0,  4, 0,  0, 2                     
      0,  0, 7,  0,  9, 14, 0,  0, 0                     
      0,  0, 0,  9,  0, 10, 0,  0, 0
      0,  0, 4,  0, 10,  0, 2,  0, 0                     
      0,  0, 0, 14,  0,  2, 0,  1, 6
      8, 11, 0,  0,  0,  0, 1,  0, 7
      0,  0, 2,  0,  0,  0, 6,  7, 0

C/C++ has a data type for undirected and directed graphs. 

    /* Let us create the example graph discussed above */
       int graph[V][V] = {{0, 4, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 8, 0},
                          {4, 0, 8, 0, 0, 0, 0, 11, 0},
                          {0, 8, 0, 7, 0, 4, 0, 0, 2},
                          {0, 0, 7, 0, 9, 14, 0, 0, 0},
                          {0, 0, 0, 9, 0, 10, 0, 0, 0},
                          {0, 0, 4, 0, 10, 0, 2, 0, 0},
                          {0, 0, 0, 14, 0, 2, 0, 1, 6},
                          {8, 11, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 7},
                          {0, 0, 2, 0, 0, 0, 6, 7, 0}
                         };

### Adjacency List

Adjacency lists are more space-efficient, particularly for sparse graphs in which most pairs of vertices are 
unconnected, while adjacency matrices facilitate quicker look-ups.

Moreover, we can easily work with adjacency list in PHP

Example:

    $graph = array(
      'A' => array('B' => 2, 'D' => 4),
      'B' => array('C' => 1, 'G' => 10, 'A' => 2),
      'C' => array('B' => 1),
      'D' => array('E' => 3, 'A' => 4, 'F' => 8),
      'E' => array('D' => 3),
      'F' => array('D' => 8, 'G' => 2),
      'G' => array('B' => 10, 'F' => 2),
    );

## Source, Inspiration, and Reference
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_theory
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dijkstra%27s_algorithm
* http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/greedy-algorithms-set-6-dijkstras-shortest-path-algorithm/
* http://www.sitepoint.com/data-structures-4/
* http://www.codediesel.com/algorithms/building-a-adjacency-matrix-of-a-graph/

## Future

In the future I'd love to be able to print the graphs and illustrate the process.

Resources
* https://github.com/clue/graph
* http://www.graphviz.org/
